- [Instructor] Since the inception of Java,
a number of shifts in technology
have influenced the way that we build, deliver,
and operate modern Java applications.
These shifts are best summarized by the term "cloud native",
which is used to describe software
that is highly distributed, modular, and resilient.
Let's quickly walk through the changes
that caused Java applications
to evolve towards this approach.
As we've briefly discussed,
a waterfall methodology
was once the standard used to deliver an app.
This approach was painful,
especially towards the end of the project
when all of the code needed to be integrated together
in one big messy merge.
If the project actually survived that phase,
major problems would then occur
when the software was thrown over the wall
to the testing and operations teams.
It also wasn't very flexible.
If the customer's needs changed in the middle of a project,
you just kept on building
what you agreed to a few quarters ago.
So at the end of the project
you ran the risk of delivering the wrong product.
This led teams to adopt new ways of delivering software
like Agile and DevOps.
Agile complements continuous delivery very well
because the idea is to develop in iterations
where work is broken down into smaller pieces.
So it naturally produces the small changes
that we want to deliver through a CI/CD pipeline.
DevOps also emerged slightly after Agile.
It advocated for best practices
like early collaboration between development,
quality assurance, and operations teams.
In fact,
one of the key practices in a DevOps approach
is to automate common testing and operations tasks
into a CI/CD pipeline so you can deliver faster.
One of the historical barriers to delivering faster
was the amount of time it took
to provision or change infrastructure
in a corporate data center.
Getting a new virtual machine or changing a network firewall
could easily delay a project schedule for weeks or months
until the changes were approved and manually performed.
The emergence of cloud platforms changed this equation.
Now virtual machines can be provisioned in seconds
and easily scaled up if they require more resources.
The cloud also made many capabilities
like networking and security available
as easy to use services that operate at a global scale.
New technologies also emerged
that changed how applications were packaged and deployed.
Traditionally,
Java applications in the enterprise
were deployed to application servers
that were bundled within bloated middleware platforms
that were expensive proprietary technologies.
Often these platforms were not configured the same
in different environments
and the one-off configurations
could cause a release to fail.
The introduction of container-based technologies
like Docker and Kubernetes
changed how we package Java applications.
Using containers,
we can package applications and their environments together,
which simplifies how we deploy and run them.
This made it more feasible to build distributed systems
and engineers now had another option
besides the traditional monolith.
Monoliths are still a valid architecture in many scenarios,
but their bulkiness doesn't promote
the rapid delivery of changes that we hope to achieve
with continuous delivery.
Highly de-coupled microservices have emerged
as the best approach for teams that want to deploy
small portions of their system frequently.
Microservice architectures consists of small services
that can be developed and deployed
independently of one another,
which allows our systems to be changed more easily.
These evolutions,
which we'll refer to as the cloud native approach,
have caused fundamental changes
for how we build and deliver modern Java applications.
As we walk through the different phases
in the delivery process throughout our course project,
I'll highlight where the cloud native approach
has influenced delivery practices.